This is one exercise from [SDF p202][1]:
> The type-inference system we have outlined here is adequate for
pure functional programs. Can it be *elegantly extended* to work for
*programs with assignment*? If you think so, explain and
demonstrate your design. If you think not, explain your reasons.
>
> This is not easy. It may be a nice term project to understand this
and make it work.

---

I found [one related QA][2] which says
> However, assignments cannot be trivially added because paradoxes arise, so special techniques such as *ML value restriction must be applied*.

Here [ML value restriction][3] means
> The value restriction prevents *a ref cell (or an array) from holding values of different types*, which would allow a value of one type to be cast to another and hence would break type safety.

The "ref cell" is not how Scheme implements for assignment which just changes the binding instead of holding many possible values at least as SICP teaches. Anyway, the basic idea is that we have restriction on value type, so it avoids some possible errors when type-inference in advance.

---

IMHO if we want to make type-inference work for something like `set!` in Scheme which *doesn't have restriction* on assigned value. The book codes does type-inference based on unification of constraints which is constructed by digging into the codes recursively and *statically*. Here is [the code block for procedure type-inference][4]:
```scheme
(define-generic-procedure-handler program-constraints-1
  (match-args type-expression? combination-expr?)
  (lambda (type expr)
    (cons (constrain (texpr-type (combination-operator expr))
                     (procedure-type 
                      (map texpr-type
                           (combination-operands expr))
                      type))
          (append (program-constraints (combination-operator expr))
                  (append-map program-constraints
                              (combination-operands expr))))))
```

But what if the assignment type is different from the original one?


  [1]: https://mitpress.ublish.com/ebook/software-design-for-flexibility-preview/12618/197
  [2]: https://stackoverflow.com/q/8066608/21294350
  [3]: http://mlton.org/ValueRestriction
  [4]: https://github.com/sci-42ver/SDF_exercise_solution/blob/9be284d292312196dd0d8e7fa838eca226f512a9/software/sdf/unification/type-resolver.scm#L429-L439